# 22th March

## discussed:

- general direction of the thesis reiterated: how cryptography (public / private keys) and blockchain ideas can be applied to distributed (not centralised or even decentralised) databases
- mastering bitcoin book is for sure important to look further into, as a lot of chapters are relevant to this thesis (eg. c8 mining, use of crypto)
- a potential for chapter 3 of the thesis would be an evaluation of the current proposals of using blockchain as / in combination with distributed databases:
  - openledger, openbazaar, interledger => needs more personal investigation
  - timestamping of database hashes on the bitcoin blockchain => seems pretty straightforward, literally C5 transactions, OP_RETURN script
  - storing the actual data on ethereum blockchain => again, needs way more investigation
  - potential other use cases I come up with during research
- generally, on the current structure, not much to discuss, looks good, private blockchains will probably be less important, as they don't need to be cryptographically encrypted etc, don't need the advanced innovations of public blockchains, and private data can still be on a public blockchain, encrypted of course.
- proof of work, proof of stake (dash masternodes instant send) or even proof of storage (potential idea)
- next:
  - finish research on blockchain,
  - start writing on first chapter on blockchain basics.
  - meeting wednesday 29/3
  - in meantime, questions via skype

## to discuss:


### material

- nakamoto paper: useful, but very basic
- mastering bitcoin: which chapters?
- baran: useful? not really, only basic concepts
- charts

### missing material

- private blockchains
- permissioned vs unpermissioned
- proof of stake
- non-monetary transactions and smart contracts


## full email


These are the tasks I would like to have done by our meeting:

- the paper of Nakamoto. I'm not yet sure what I will get out of it but, it is probably the place to start for anyone looking into blockchain / bitcoin.

- the mastering bitcoin book by Antonopoulos: This is a big one and I'm afraid that if I'm going entirely through this one, I'll just waste a lot of time without much of a result, as there are chapters such as chapter 3: the bitcoin client. Do you think it's worth it? Do you think there are any chapters that are specifically worth it? I was thinking of chapter 7: blockchain for sure, but then there are also chapter such as 4. keys, wallets and addresses, 5. wallets, 6. the bitcoin network, 8. mining and 9. 'other': alternative chains, currencies and applications and even 10. security. Which ones do you think I should focus on?

- the 1964 paper by Baran on collaborative dbs. I'm just afraid that this will be rather outdated. I do not remember finding anything more current though.

Further, although I have been mostly dealing with other stuff, I've had the opportunity to talk with some 'blockchain experts' at a hackathon I attended in December. They send me some interesting blockchain decision models. I put them in my github right here: https://github.com/pellejacobs/thesis/tree/master/public_files. Honestly, this is almost exactly what I was planning on developing back in November. How do you think my thesis should differ from these charts? Will I just make a aggregate of them, groundd by a bibliography? This is something I want to discuss for sure.
